welcome to topcast or air chat for today
it is a very different kind of episode
of which I expect to see more in this
feed over the coming months and years
air chat is an exciting new app that's
out there good for all kinds of things
virtual meetings but only better than
Zoom for example because you don't have
to all be there at the same time
although you can be it's good for just
chatting with your friends again
asynchronously and my main interest is
podcasting
this is a real podcast supplement
possibly it's a podcast Slayer but I
don't want to say that just yet
can be used for video but I'm sort of an
audio file myself in these matters
because I know as a matter of fact and
feedback that people listen more than
they watch when it comes to my podcasts
anyway when it becomes to any podcast
for that matter I do like putting lots
of effort into my videos and the
background music and sometimes lots of
the video clips I select and then edit
all that together into a slick
production but at root tokcast remains
all about the audio
what airchat can do is turn it into a
TalkBack podcast
to my mind this is the first time a
genuine talkback app for podcasting can
really work
I mean people do ring into podcasts like
they used to ring into radio
sometimes these days but it's more
artificial you'll see here that we're
going to have guest appearances in our
conversation today
when I say our conversation as you'll
see once again this is mainly myself a
naval having yet another chat not so
much wide ranging as we've often done
over the years this time we're focused
especially on AI artificial intelligence
and AGI artificial general intelligence
we're looking at the philosophical meat
on the bones of this whole discussion at
least where it does exist
following David Deutsch we don't think
well okay speaking for myself I don't
think that this a i a g i distinction or
even transition as some people are
talking about
is that it's an issue with coding or
Tech or more complexity or anything like
that that people are talking about it is
as David Deutsch says about a problem in
philosophy
it's about the philosophical problem of
what people are and how to code a person
into a computer system
what is the code for that
we know it's possible
because the laws of physics say it must
be
a person obeys the laws of physics the
laws of physics govern everything that
includes people and people who deny this
are denying that there are certain
things that obey the laws of physics
therefore they're implying the
supernatural
operates in that realm the supernatural
governs that area
I've even heard people like euron Brook
kind of deny this sort of thing and
you're on Brook is a great adversary of
everything Supernatural because Ayn Rand
was And yet when it comes to this
particular question
the question of human reason
they will say things like well the human
brain can't just be a computer
now you might think this as well but
just understand that this is a violation
of the laws of physics
you might not understand it okay you're
on Brook might not understand it okay
lots of people might unders not
understand it okay but it is in the same
category of error as someone who says
well I refuse to accept what special
relativity says about me being able to
travel beyond the speed of light I just
think that what we need is an Ever
better rocket and eventually the rocket
will go faster than the speed of light
because hey that makes common sense to
me and Common Sense is more fundamental
than the laws of physics
that's the same kind of error as saying
well I don't accept that the human brain
is anything like a computer so therefore
you can't code AGI it's just wrong
so we say certainly I say this is a
philosophical problem yet to be solved
this problem of how to code an AGI how
to code a person what is the code for
that what's the algorithm what's the
software that you can write so you get a
person an intelligent creative being
there inside the computer
as I like to put it this is the problem
of discovering the universal algorithm
for which when you run it it can produce
any other algorithm
that's equivalent to
in David Deutsch's way of framing this
what is the universal explainer or
knowledge creator
we know human beings can do this but
more generally
the code that explains how alien
intelligence from another galaxy will do
this
or AGI our artificially General
intelligent silicon Brothers and Sisters
of the future once that philosophical
problem is solved
only then can we get to talking about
what the science of understanding how
brains and Minds really work
is going to be able to be solved and
then finally after all of that at the
end of all of that discussion in
philosophy and science
only then we have the capacity to
finally write the code for an AGI
as you'll hear me say in this
conversation I think we have more chance
of an alien being from another galaxy
landing and now being surprised about
the existence of extraterrestrials
traveling across the Galaxy and flying
sources we've got more chance of that
happening one unexpected Wednesday
afternoon in between stories about the
latest on Taiwan or Ukraine or aoc's
latest Tick Tock video the eu's latest
regulations about fossil fuels we'll
have more chance of seeing the alien
life story the alien literally walking
down the gangway of the interstellar
Mothership then we have of sometime in
the not too distant future waking up one
morning to headlines about how chat gpt7
is discovered to be an AGI because it's
past a battery of tests somewhere
as I'll argue
what won't convince us is the battery of
tests that people apply to this system I
think that's entirely the wrong way
around that's upside down back the front
wrong when it comes to is chat GPT 4 or
5 or 6
and artificially generally intelligent
creative being
kind of like a person
I think the actual route will be first
someone smart somewhere is going to
solve what AGI really is in other words
they will solve the question of what a
person's mind does and how it does it
and then they'll present a true Road a
map to coding one before it actually is
coded anywhere and it will be that plan
published somewhere that we will find to
be the amazing part I'm going to go
through how I think that's going to work
in this podcast later on in our chits on
airchamp
we will know how the AGI Works before
it's ever coded before we ever see the
thing actually in Silicon just in the
same way we know how any other system we
program works long before we code it at
least in part
rather than the other way around cloning
something and then being absolutely
mystified how it's doing what it does
and having to conclude
well this thing is a true alien
intelligence in the computer this is
genuine AGI that has emerged from a deep
Learning Network a large language model
llm running a self-attention Transformer
that's been around for years now only
this one has a much larger data set it's
drawing on
now it is true the present crop
of large language models deep learning
Networks
GPT
whether it's a
chat engine or whether it's a an image
generator
whatever this thing happens to be
sometimes they are difficult to explain
but that's not to say that someone
somewhere doesn't know the explanation
it's just that it's difficult at the
moment to put it into simple language
but it's not like it's a complete
mystery to the coders but what I like to
say is the coders are presently
struggling to explain things in normal
language but so what
this has always been true when people
make interesting discoveries in science
and technology
trying to explain to the average person
how relativity or quantum theory works
by the pioneers of those things was
difficult and remains difficult to this
day but it's not to say that no one has
an understanding although there isn't a
good explanation out there of these
things
repeat for Rockets repeat for internal
combustion engines
this is why the study of engineering and
science is such a deep thing it's a deep
well that people can explore and spend
their lives trying to come to understand
well so too and perhaps even more so is
this compounded with the present
existence of AI systems really complex
AI systems but it's not to say that no
one understands it it's not to say that
people are producing these things
programming them spending their large
portions of their lives devoted to
making these interesting complex systems
that solve all sorts of problems that
are really Advanced tools
and being unable to come up with a
simple language
explanation of this can be ported out to
the media so everyone immediately goes
ah now I get it too
just because they can't do that doesn't
mean the explanation doesn't exist
and it certainly doesn't mean that what
we should expect over the coming weeks
and months is that someone will program
one of these things and then say I have
no clue how it's achieving what it's
doing
that's just not going to happen even in
the
situations where as I've said before
the alphago programmers can't explain
how it came up with this or that move in
order to win the game that is not a
refutation your ignorance on particular
matters is not a refutation of the idea
that this system is not understood by
someone or there is not a good
explanation somewhere of that particular
thing and how it's doing it
your imagination is not a refutation of
the laws of physics in particular
as I will come to perhaps chat GPT five
six or seven is not merely going to be
drawing on libraries of data of
everything we know perhaps someone's
going to come up with the idea of
attaching cameras to it so it's got eyes
and microphones to it so it's got ears
and so it can collect data from the real
physical world around it perhaps
but I'm getting ahead of myself because
we talk about that in the coming podcast
but let's dive into the conversation in
just a moment of go through a few other
things first in preamble
realize though that when you hear this
conversation we're at the midpoint to
some extent of a much larger longer
conversation all conversations on air
chatter ongoing and many interesting
topics are covered with clever people
links in the description follow along
and if you can find someone on air chat
yourself ask for an invite if you think
you have something to contribute to the
conversation but for now it remains
invite only
also note that again this is a special
kind of top cast production
and you'll also notice therefore and you
have to keep this in mind that it is a
natural conversation no editing as I
often spend many hours doing no ums and
R's all the pauses are taken out in my
regular podcast as much as possible but
that's not the case here in other words
there's no real editing to speak of so
forgive us for that and note that even
this introduction to say nothing of the
conversation proper has all been
recorded not with my usual professional
podcasting equipment in a studio
effectively this is all done via just
the iPhone with the iPhone microphone
standard stuff that lots of people have
access to
now of course iPhone microphones you
might not realize that extremely high
quality compared to regular microphones
but all of this is just to say I haven't
done this in my usual way in a studio
with my professional rode microphones
and Shore equipment and all that sort of
stuff
but then perhaps also note just how good
it sounds nonetheless
how good podcasting via air chat using
this method can work with nothing but a
mobile phone microphone
so you too could be should be producing
podcasts just this easily of this
quality anyway
without further Ado let's just dive
straight in
well this is fun I want to get into this
now far be it for me to ever speak for
anyone else I don't speak for Deutsche I
don't speak for Papa and I'm certainly
not going to speak for Naval here
especially when he says that what he
says there is obsolete so I want to go
through it and find if I disagree with
anything that Nevada said there now
because read through it very quickly
I didn't immediately think oh clearly
wrong on any paragraph so let me try
just by the way what I'll be going
through and discussing is the content
here it's 1 minute and 37 you can read
through it yourself at that link or just
listen to it Naval talking about how
presti is with chat GPT three but how
too many big claims are being made for
it so well let's see uh has anything
changed substantially with gpt4 uh isn't
the vowel what he said back then should
it be changed should it be changed
substantially
um so I'm defending my interpretation
what's going on here and of course as
always errors my own and the vowel might
very well have completely changed his
mind on all of this okay fine but let's
see uh if I think there's truth here or
if I think yeah that's now being refuted
by gpt4 and the most modern incantations
of what we've got so far as deep
Learning Systems out there
Begins by saying that the artificial
intelligence crew gets it completely
wrong by thinking that just adding more
compute power will get will create
intelligence so I think this is still
completely true this is the keep on
adding more height to your Tower and you
will get escape velocity kind of error
I'll talk about this in my the beginning
of my critique on super intelligence
which Still Remains kind of the Bible
for intellectuals engaged in these
debates on the other side of the issue
superintelligence
and the beginning of my critique on that
following Deutsche involves comparing
different ways of being in the sky
get down on the ground you're looking up
in the sky you've got a problem there's
two kinds of things to explain
one when you look up you can see the top
of tall towers up there in the sky and
on the other hand you've got Birds
both of these things are in the sky one
is flying and one is not
but they're both up there so maybe if
you want to achieve flight just like a
bird does all you need to do is to keep
building ever higher towers and
eventually once you get a high enough
Tower it'll achieve the capacity to fly
I don't want to talk to the metaphor
it's pretty obvious to the intelligent
people he
the parallel I want to draw is people
thinking that adding more compute power
or just more memory in this particular
case just keep loading in more and more
data more of the Corpus of the library
of knowledge of humanity that exists out
there into a chat engine then you'll
achieve escape velocity so the eigen is
subtly different now it's not merely
about processing speed in gigahertz or
amount of memory in terabytes but a
subtle difference it's the kind of thing
you put in the memory the kind of data
and information you put there
perhaps something to do with the
algorithm but basically it's something
bigger it's something more complex
but isn't that what we're saying anyway
with AGI that we're just adding more of
something no that's too slippery we're
adding something completely different
we're not adding more stuff just like
you add more stuff to a tower to make it
taller but in order to get flight to get
higher than any Tower
you're going to have to do something
foundationally different to the way in
which you're constructing and building
this thing it's not anchored to the
ground it's the opposite
but adding more compute power including
more data into the memory is just like
adding more and more height to a
structure that you're already know is
anchored to the ground in other words
the anchoring to the ground in this case
the tower is the complete Obedience of
this thing completely unlike flight
which is the opposite which is
disobedience
in the next paragraph your second
paragraph Naval doesn't say anything
particularly controversially talks about
how gpt3 can be used to generate great
tweets but you're the human being
selecting among the good tweaks out all
the garbage generates in the next
paragraph he says something that well
perhaps we can object to so let's see
this is more interesting is he saying
something that now is worth taking back
all right he says
the easiest way to see that what it's
generating doesn't actually make any
sense is to ask it a follow-up question
take gpt's three generated output and
ask ask it why is that the case or make
a prediction based on that and watch it
completely fall apart because there's no
underlying explanation end quite
naively that's sort of to me might seem
to some people to be obviously false
okay you can show that chat gpt3 for
example isn't making any sense because
when you ask it why is that the case or
to make a prediction it will completely
fall apart because there's no underlying
explanation
let me defend this
the vowel seems careful to say there
that what it's generating doesn't
actually make any sense
okay but chapter 524 it certainly does
make sense in Jeep and gbt3 makes sense
but not to chat gpt4 to check gpt3 now
on this question there has recently been
some interesting debates between prone
intellectuals about exactly that is GPT
for understanding is it making sense of
stuff I would say no categorically no
that it's doing exactly what Nevada is
going to say in the next paragraph so
let me read that
and it's the bit I quoted on Twitter
because I think it's the most important
part of this piece Naval says quote it's
parroting it's brilliant Bayesian
reasoning it's extrapolating what it
already sees out there generated by
humans on the web but it doesn't have an
underlying model of reality that can
explain the scene in terms of the Unseen
and I think that's critical end quote
and I couldn't agree more and it
explains why everything said in the
previous paragraph makes sense
I don't think it has an underlying model
of reality either it especially cannot
explain the scene in terms of the Unseen
it sees data
it sees whatever has been loaded into
its Library vast as it is it's
interpolating within that and
extrapolating within that it is not
conjecturing what exists beyond the data
it's certainly not able to sense
anything about the real world because it
doesn't have access to the real world in
order to extrapolate about the real
world unlike us we have access to
channels of information which really are
being impinged upon by stuff out there
in physical reality this is a black and
white difference
this is also something that even if you
stack cameras and microphones into chat
jpt4 that it wouldn't be helped by that
thing it might be able to scan text or
whatever but gpt4 the chat versions a
language they're all about language
especially the English language and
trying to develop models of reality
based on English language
but then have access to reality unlike
us okay so if you go into that
now says test gpt3 to see if it makes
sense by asking it why is that the case
I'll get to make a prediction and watch
it completely fall apart okay so again a
lot of people object to that gpt4 makes
that all redundant now
because you can ask it follow-up
questions and it won't fall apart
well I think it does eventually I mean
lots of people have shown this you just
have to pick the right question
now if you make the mistake that I keep
on saying Jaron Lanier tells us that
we're all making and this is even in
previous iterations of AR which is you
lower your standards then yeah you'll be
impressed you won't ask the right
questions you'll ask gpt4 a bunch of
questions one after another and be
impressed by every single answer because
you're not really trying you're lowering
your standards
if you're someone who is quite critical
and you're not going to put up with a
simulacrum with a simulated intelligence
when you're being told that this thing
actually is intelligent then you're
going to ask critical questions and
you're going to very quickly reveal that
this thing is not a person that you can
get it to fail the Turing test now do I
think that the Turing test is even
relevant here no do I think that it can
pass a Turing test yes because passing
the Turing test depends upon what
questions you're asking and what the
human purpose of investigating it has
its standards you thinking something
passes a Turing test may not be the same
as me thinking something is past the
Turing test because we might both have
very different criteria and different
set of questions we're going to ask this
entity
I think when the vowel says all this
stuff and he follows it up with look
gpt3 doesn't have an underlying
explanation that is quite right
nothing else has changed it is parroting
it is brilliant Bayesian reasoning it is
predicting the next token
it's doing something but I don't think
it's got an underlying explanation of
the world it doesn't have access to the
world it has access once again only to
the library that has been loaded into it
and it's making a model of that which is
not a model of the world and to what
extent it's able to start you're able to
say it's explaining the data let's open
the question about what an explanation
is what understanding is notes I argued
I think that these things are sort of
co-linear with Consciousness itself when
you start talking about generating an
explanation you're talking about
understanding and understanding really
does have this subjective component to
it this feeling this consciousness of
understanding you feel as if you've
understood something and you could be
mistaken but the fact is You've Got A
Feeling
is there anything in the code of gpt4
that says with generated consciousness
would we recognize it if there was
perhaps not
but no one as far as I can tell in open
AI for all the stuff that they're
publishing on this and it's a lot is
anyone coming out and saying oh by the
way we've also solved Consciousness and
creativity in fact they're saying quite
the opposite in many cases the the sober
ones at least and jpt4 of itself when
you investigate it says look I'm not
creating and I'm not conscious I'm just
a chatbot it's weird how cute Caskey
takes it seriously when it says some
things but not when it says other things
and he seems to know this is the
interesting thing about the pessimists
they seem to think that they're the ones
who are going to see an arbitration over
which of this almost AGI is super
intelligent sayings are the ones that
are true but it's honestly saying which
ones are the ones where it's being
dishonest and are trying to mislead the
humans about
and they know it's super intelligent but
in fact they're the only ones on planet
Earth that can see through the super
intelligent deception to which of its
utterings are uh honest it's not trying
to deceive you and which ones aren't
perhaps it's all about deception
the vowel concludes here by saying quote
that is what humans do uniquely what's
he talking about he's talking about the
previous paragraph where he said an
entity that has an underlying model of
reality that can explain the sustain in
terms of the Unseen okay so on that
point he's saying that is what humans do
uniquely that no other creature no other
computer Northern intelligence
biological artificial that we have ever
encountered does
and not only do we do it uniquely but if
we were to maintain alien species that
also had the power to generate these
good explanations there's no explanation
they can generate that we could not
understand
end quote also perfectly true and he
concludes quote we human beings are
maximally capable of understanding there
is no concept out there that is possible
in this physical reality that a human
being given sufficient time and
resources and education could not
understand end quote end of the piece
uh might drop perfectly said correctly
nothing has changed about any of that we
are maximally capable of understanding
GPT 4 is 9.
I doubt it to understand a capable of
understanding period
it's able to as Naval said there
parrot
really well what it's already been fed a
comparison the way that a parent does a
parent can end up riffing on the things
that it's heard
that a parrot can end up just like a
liar bird if you've ever seen those
things making sounds that are so
brilliant in the way they replicate what
it is they've heard so for all the world
you think this is Talent of a kind that
is creative but of course it's not it's
literally parenting no word exists for a
reason because there's no creative
explanation going on behind that
it's just a it's a natural deception
in our case we've got artificial
deceptions
just like artificial selection throws up
these amazing things at times like
camouflage that's out there where the
insect looks for all the world like a
leaf
but in fact the two things have almost
nothing to do which are with each other
genetically the dead leaf and the insect
that looks like the Dead Leaf
there's all sorts of ways in which
evolution by natural selection
naturally throws up something that for
all the world appears like one kind of
organism but in fact it doesn't share
any of the features of that organism and
we're not surprised by this this is this
is what nature does this is camouflage
you know the the harmless lizard that
looks like the toxic snake
especially in the Marine World the fish
that is again completely unable to
defend itself except that it looks like
the scary fish that can defend itself
with poison or big teeth
this guy's on all the time
it can be really hard to give an account
in biological evolution sometimes of why
that structure has arisen it's just
astonishing this is why intelligent
design is still a thing by the way
people just have this real difficulty in
accepting that evolution of my natural
selection that one is near Darwinism the
idea the selfish Gene is just going to
selfishly propagate its way through a
gene pool can throw up these amazingly
complex organisms
but for all the world appear to be able
to do one thing be one thing but in fact
aren't that thing at all
the the praying mantis that is able to
move its arms in such a way that it
looks like it's got a toothed mouth that
is going to bite whatever bird comes
down to try and get it
has no teeth it has no mouth but it's
arms we made to look exactly like one
so we are now generating something like
that artificially
the artificial selection of systems that
are able to kind of evolve using this
Bayesian kind of predictive capability
that also ends up creating a kind of
deception
an artificial kind of camouflage
it looks for all the world like it's
creative
it's doing all the stuff that many
people who might be thinking too
critically about this say that no look
it really is it's got all the features
of creativity and of artificial general
intelligence of general intelligence of
intelligence of understanding
but to me it's just analogous to the
insect that looks like the Dead Leaf
it looks like it but it's very different
now this is opposite to that
it's more like the artificial chatbot
so-called intelligence that we've got
here it's more like the Dead Leaf
it looks all the world like this
creature that's able to walk around and
is alive
the the leaf-like insect that's like us
we're we're the with a leaf-like insect
in this analogy we're the thing that's
alive and moving around and has volition
and we look a particular way and we do
particular things and gpt4 just looks
like that
it's the Dead Leaf
and if we keep lowering our
standards for what it means to be
intelligent creative
it's like we're lowering our standards
what it means to be alive
that their belief is alive why because
it looks just like that insect that gets
around it looks exactly like it
one of these things is not like the
other
the one thing that's on the top there
that's the living thing that's us that's
the thing that's moving around of its
own volition
what it's done in this analogy is it's
sitting atop a whole bunch of things
that look like it in our case we've
created chat gpt4 and it looks like the
things that this butterfly or moth
whatever you want to call it this insect
is standing on top of
the insect is standing on top of it has
evolved this camouflage to make it look
indistinguishable at first glance if
you're not paying attention if you're
not being critical these two things look
the same
because you don't have to ask any
questions or think too deeply about the
crucial difference between them living
versus non-living one that's going to
fly away and one that never is
aware the thing that flies we're the
thing unbounded we're the thing that
understands and generates explanations
and no matter how fancy the chatbots
become they will forever remain exactly
like those Dead Leaves
you can say they're beautiful you say
they're impressive
none of them are progressed towards life
it's the opposite
is am I saying that you know again I'm
not impressed by this no they're amazing
they're fantastic I want taller
skyscrapers as well but at no point no
matter how tall the skyscraper gets do I
think wow this is just like being in an
airplane
not at all
this is just like a person
no it's kind of sad to think that it is
it's really useful tool it's really fun
you can sit there you can kind of chat
to it for a long time
but you do realize very quickly there's
no person there's no understanding here
because they're feeling there's that
Consciousness there's no creativity here
it's just a really amazing search engine
I won't say I love to be wrong because I
don't want to be wrong on this
in the sense that I want genuine AGI and
I want us to find Simplicity when it
comes to that these things are just
getting more and more and more complex
great uh it's giving us more impressive
technology but I think the solution
who's my conjecture just throwing it out
there the solution to agis can be really
complex in the way that you know
physical theories sometimes end up being
like this like instructor Theory they
contend in the direction of Simplicity
rather than never increase complexity
so I think Naval was right in the first
place and I don't think anything has
changed
the chatbots have just gotten more
impressive but that doesn't make them
any closer to AGI or anything that he
says they're incorrect one of the first
responses to my Twitter that people have
that someone has said is I quote
talking about gpt4
it doesn't have access to reality and
can't learn trained from it directly
only from feed data but if some
interface to reality it created and
allowed just like human brain has senses
and hands
what would the difference be in
sufficient time
end quote so what he's getting at there
is well if it didn't just have data but
it had access to the real world
then it would be intelligent and I would
just say no no
it doesn't change the fact that the
Transformer is operating by a different
set of rules to what a person's general
intelligence is do I know what those
rules are no I don't know what the rules
of general intelligence is but that
doesn't mean that I'm going to jump to
well it's a Transformer architecture
that's using Bayesian reasoning in order
to extrapolate from the existing set of
data
if you gay again if you gave chat gpt4
a camera so it could see the world in a
microphone so it could hear the world
and tactile fingers so it could feel the
world in an olfactory sense so I could
smell the ball and repeat
that is not going to 220 intelligence
that would be a trivial thing for the
programmers to do by the way anyone
could do that
where's Jordan Peterson has even talked
about
how does it know what it's looking at
how does it form that into a model of
reality
if you want to name things in that
picture you know you could take a movie
and say look you know that's a bird
that's a tree and that's the ground
that's a table and it's a chair and it's
a pillow and so on and so forth I could
enumerate all that but to form these
things into a coherent explanation that
it understands is a Step Beyond
I don't see that happening if it hey
look again I'm you know a
falsificationist but it would be easy to
refute me just just add those senses to
it that's simple
it's not designed to do that though it's
designed to exist on a library of
internal data and extrapolate from that
not to extrapolate from the doctor it's
conjecturing about itself
when we look outside we guess about the
world and then explain the world this is
different to what it would do but again
that takes us down a road that I've
explained here on aircheck many times
before questions happy to answer them
wait a minute I'm just saying this is it
it is an air chatter quote tweeting
Naval
on Twitter about a blog post from a year
and a half ago and dunking on them
Michael Jackson popcorn Jeff pull up the
lawn chair
Brett thank you for rising to my defense
here it's obviously impossible to do on
Twitter because Twitter does not lend
itself to nuanced conversations
um that said I'll kind of tell you where
my current thinking is subject to change
and I have some questions as well I've
been very surprised and impressed by
gpt4 I still don't think it has deep
underlying explanations of what it's
doing and what it's doing what's clear
that the human knowledge map and the
semantic grammar inside of that are much
much richer than one would have guessed
and a sufficiently large model can
extract tremendous connectivity
knowledge insights from it and it does
seem to be creative in some ways at
least in the conventional description of
creativity the conventional definition
of creativity is that it's just mixing
things together and I think Steve Jobs
even said that so in that sense it does
seem to do some very impressive things
taking things from very very vast
knowledge bases and stitching them
together in a way that perhaps people
have not yet found those connections to
date and it can do these very
impressively on the fly it can mix code
and poetry it can mix uh you know
physics and literature it can just do
things that you look at you're like wow
no single human brain would have had the
knowledge and every Edition to be able
to do that they can do it on the fly in
natural language as if an intelligent
human being was talking to you it can
even explain things to you in five
different ways using analogies and
models that you might not have
considered this does seem to be getting
very close towards reasoning and
possibly even understanding and given
what a jump it is over GPT 3.5 and 3 and
2 it stands to reason that hey if
there's emergence at these levels and
they might be emergency the next level
the perhaps one of the most impressive
things is it seems to be able to take a
bunch of examples on things like basic
arithmetic or some mathematical
functions and then work backwards to
figure out those functions in other
words to somehow optimize this way to
say I'd rather just learn Edition then
memorize all the different ways to add
things it is a very very impressive
coder probably as good as a junior Dev
for many tasks now I think coding is
easier than reasoning overall because
you have a much more limited vocabulary
and you have a very high truth content
in code because code has to compile so
perhaps it's an easier problem that said
it does a great job
so now does it actually understand
underneath what is going on probably not
is there more to creativity than just
stitching things together I think so but
I'm hard-pressed to Define it I feel
like humans don't just exhaustively
search a giant space of potential
connections and go through them one by
one rather they seem to make these leaps
across large boundaries I also think
humans learn new skills very very
quickly even when they don't necessarily
have experience in similar skills
previously so they don't necessarily
learn just by analogy but it's becoming
harder and harder to find the line where
human creativity starts and machine
creativity stops
so a couple of interesting questions
running through my mind in no particular
order one uh is the neuron architecture
that we have simulated with transistors
is that sufficiently close to the neural
architecture that we have in the brain
that then just like we alter supposedly
our neurons in the brain and the firing
of the synapses uh to determine which
neurons light up and I'll probably
bangling this because I'm not a
neuroscientist is that sufficiently
similar to how we model neurons in a GPT
style architecture a second question is
is the language map of meaning that
we've assembled as humans collectively
is that sufficiently reflective of the
reality that we care about that even
though it's not the underlying reality
itself it might be close enough the map
I'd be close enough to the territory
because the parts of the territory we
care about we've mapped and the parts
that we haven't mapped we don't care
about
a third might be can a gbt like entity
narrow search spaces enough that it can
start making creative leaps and even
determining which are more likely to be
true in the real world by the way if you
haven't read it I suggest checking out
the Gorn block blog post or paper uh
which goes something like scale is all
we need
and lastly I think that rather than
saying this thing can't possibly reason
because it doesn't know what it's doing
or it can't explain why it got to a
certain way or because it was built up
sort of as this Jenga Tower as you say a
skyscraper
um model as opposed to Flying Like a
Bird model Etc et cetera I think it
would be better if they were just a
series of simple tests that we could
come up with and I'm struggling to
figure out what those tests are you're
correcting that the touring test is too
subjective but what is the bar what
where are the goal posts so we don't
just keep moving them where do the
boundaries of human creativity start
what can humans uniquely and creatively
do
I go even a little step further to say
that some of the tests that have been
done on it even the amateur type of
Investigations that I've done myself
with chatgpt4 but let's pick ones that
Microsoft themselves were using
you know being able to compile a poem
that is a proof of the infinitude of
prime numbers the Chachi bt4 did that in
seconds that's an amazing feat that is
superhuman absolutely astonishing we
should expect this to continue
I should expect that kind of thing to
only continue CERN not only will it be
composing songs which is doing okay and
not only completing explanations of some
of our best existing theories which it's
also doing
I don't see why I won't put those things
together I don't see why it won't come
up with you know the lyrics to what
could be uh top 20 pop song that
explains quantum theory I expect that
it's going to have that superhuman
capacity
but again as you and I both observed
before this just would continue the long
chain of advancements that kind of began
with the pocket calculator
I've heard the term Disobedience but
that just strikes me as unsatisfying uh
it seems to me that eventually like
somebody win hallucinations and errors
that people will start arguing that that
is also computer being disobedient
what I'm surprised about and as you've
entered that in your series of chits
there is that what we have are two
systems and we can't give adequate
accounts of either
on the one hand you've got gpt4 and no
doubt five and six and what whatever
comes next we have this huge amount of
data approximating asymptotically the
entire Corpus of everything that human
beings have ever learned on every
subject all of history all of
mathematics all of science it just goes
on and on that's been put into its
memory and that's what's been trained on
and then it's able to do these
astonishing things so there we go that's
one system that we're struggling to
explain this emergence that's coming out
of it okay let's put that in a box and
tie it up and say okay there's one kind
of mystery we're struggling to
understand
now we've got another as well haven't we
the other one that we've got in the
little box over here
because the newborn child
that has not been loaded with anything
like the Corpus of human knowledge
is struggling to learn anything
and yet it learns really quickly how to
speak and be creative and it just
accelerates from not zero we're not
saying blank slate but a tiny amount of
knowledge and it's not extrapolating but
inventing new stuff
these are two different ways of going
about constructing models of stuff I
would say on the one hand we're
constructing a model of the internal
library of all of this vast amount of
data kind of like this dumb robot that
is able to move really quickly between
the Library of Alexandria all the books
on the shelves and find passages from
those books and mix them together
without knowing what it's doing and on
the other hand the child who doesn't
have access to the library but and it's
not moving at you know the speed of
light or anything like that
but it's playing with the real world and
coming with the model of it I can't
explain both of these things or either
of these things but I just want to
observe the Stark difference between
them and saying that one is
approximating the other
I think would be a mistake these are two
very different systems but I think at
the moment a plausible account can be
given that the one the one trained on
the Corpus of human data just because
that leads to these fantastic capacities
these amazing capacities is becoming
more like the other
the child the actual conscious creative
entity and I just think that that seems
to me to be Prima facing an error at the
moment yeah I went through this a little
bit and this isn't because I'm more
compute everything we were doing right
now um we could have done when Naval put
that up it's a new architecture it's a
new solution space it's new knowledge
it's now getting tested out and
distributed and it's also too soon to
tell I mean as Simone said a lot of
people actually work in this field you
know they feel like good things are
happening but they don't feel like some
sort of existential Fork has been
reached um so yeah I mean it just wasn't
more compute that's not that's not what
changed uh the knowledge changed the
architecture changed the way all that
stuff was used was changed we could have
done all this stuff probably 20 years
ago it just would have taken a lot
longer it's just math
this language map of meaning that the
entire ensemble of human beings have
collected over time what I would say is
that certainly explanations and when it
comes to science of course they're
tested against reality and so there is
this possibility of making an
observation in the real world which you
might call an experiment that can refute
your ideas okay so that's present
philosophy of science we'll know about
but this is something that doesn't have
access to what it can do is to test one
claim against another in its library but
it never has access to physical reality
the best it can do is to test one theory
that it's got over here looking up its
filing cabinet against some other
explanation over there but they both
might be misconceived or one of them
might be our best idea let's say it's
comparing other theories of gravity to
General relatively the best existing
theory of gravity it can do that but at
no point is again going to have access
to the actual real world of things
falling to the ground so that it can
test any of its ideas
I think that's a stock difference as
well
I think the bar has to be that it has a
problem itself it has to have a problem
situation itself at the moment it's just
responding to prompts it is actually
just acting as a tool it's not taking
the initiative
if it comes up with a time prompts
because it has a problem to solve but
then that's a different conversation but
is anyone suggesting that unprompted by
anyone by any input data anyone any user
asking a question that it's coming up
with problems itself that it then goes
on to solve
if it was unbidden by anyone else
to just begin in the dead of night for
reasons no one can explain at open AI
conjecturing explanations that unify
quantum theory and general relativity
okay then it's really interesting
because then it has a problem it's
interested in doing that at the moment
it can be made to do that by being
prompted to do that by someone who asks
it to do that but is it going to get up
one morning and just start doing this
and never mind science it can be prosaic
stuff
this is what we human beings do
you guys working on airchat you talk to
each other you kind of prompt each other
but the most important thing is you're
prompting yourself you're waking up
every morning and going you know that
feature is really annoying let me try
and improve this that or the other
I get up in the morning and I think a
particular problem has been in my mind
that I want to create a podcast about
and unbidden by anyone that's just I'm
I'm self-motivated to do that why
yeah once one sense it's a deep mystery
about why we do this but on the other
this is just what we are we have
problems
doesn't have a problem and so I think
this is the black and white difference
I think it will only get to a point
where it solves its own problems is when
it has environment without embodiment
it's not going to interact with the
world and it's always going to rely on
something else inputting or asking it
questions also Brad should I say Brett
Robert I need to know is this you is
this you in the background of your um
podcasts show page or whatever is that
like hip-hop out in Sydney up to no good
is this hip-hop rap this is an
interesting argument yes the connecting
a library or interconnecting a library's
knowledge all to each other and then
having a way to search and combine and
remix all of that is very different than
something that literally grows up
embodied in the world and just through
trial and error and feedback and
creative leaps puts together a model of
the real world and can come up with new
insights those are two extremely
different systems Stephen Wolfram had a
good analogy that I think is worth
bringing up he pointed out how Aristotle
looked at lots of rhetoric and through
that came up with logic he basically
said here are the persuasive arguments
therefore I boil them down generalize
them categorize them and therefore these
are how people make logical argument so
he found syntactic logic inside language
and the same way the llms might be
extracting new patterns between text
which he calls semantic grammar they
might be uncovering a semantic grammar
inside the text that is kind of hidden
to humans but it's like these little
puzzle pieces and rules in how you can
connect pieces of language together such
that they make sense and in that sense
it is less mathematical less analytical
uh less simple than just the rules of
logic but the same way that you might
have like 20 or 30 or 50 rules of logic
you might have 10 000 rules of semantic
grammar or even millions of them and the
AI has basically extracted those and can
stitch them together again to form new
coherent not just sentences but thoughts
and paragraphs with meaning so
interesting analogy
so there's one sense in in which I can
agree with you that we can't just say
well it's not reasoning
because
well you can say that something like a
pocket calculator is reasoning it's
using logic after we've programmed it to
use logic it's foundationally from the
ground up in terms of its Hardware it's
using logic and as a matter of it's
software it's using logic as well so in
one sense it's reasoning that's a flavor
of reasoning
but again
there's nothing about a pocket
calculator that means that it's got a
problem and so it's conjecturing
Solutions which is a whole other facet
of what I would call reasoning the
reasoning which is of the kind where we
come up with creative conjectures now
keep on repeating this word creative or
creatively which is kind of what in a
sense you're pointing at it's the real
mystery here how can we decide between
the creativity we have and the
creativity it has and all I can do is to
just appeal once more to the way I began
Can it have a problem can't see a
problem in the world can I have a
conflict of ideas on its own
that's creativity to me
to notice that you're in Conflict
there's this thing you want and the
thing in the way of getting you what you
want at that moment I don't see that
chat GPT has anything like that
we can give it tasks to do because we
have the problem but it doesn't have the
problem we have to tell it what to do
and even the really impressive stuff
that it does like I said you know who
would ever think of constructing a
mathematical proof using poetry
well I know who does a person does it's
not judge apt that's sort of doing that
okay so he did the calculation the
computation required to actually
construct the thing
but it didn't come up with the idea on
its own did it and this is true of
everything that it does everything that
it does it has to be given the prompt
write a new episode of Seinfeld on the
modern day talking about the hazards of
social media use it does that does that
pretty quick it does it really well
but I didn't think of it on its own it's
Roofing on stuff that's already there
and it's using a particular style
invented by Seinfeld and Larry David had
that TV show not already existed with
all the creativity they wouldn't have
any style to Riff on and yeah sure it's
introducing new plot lines and I might
throw in a new character here and there
and say something funny but it's all
Within These bounds that have been
created for it it's true that the map is
quite far from the territory but um on
the creativity side and this ties into
what Annika has been saying as well
it would be good to find examples of
creativity that we currently believe
that humans can do that AIS cannot do
that are not overly scientific in other
words they're not you know calling upon
relativity and quantum mechanics and so
on I think more prosaic examples and
tests would help us better establish a
boundary that most people would
understand because if what you say is
like hey an AGI or sorry an AI today you
know is getting to the point where we'll
do everything except Cutting Edge new
breakthroughs in science most people
would throw up their hands at that point
and say well then we're done as a
species so it would be good to find more
prosaic examples
yeah okay um more prosaic examples so
I'd like to see anyone of the art
generation things out there the image
generators that invent in a completely
new style of art
just get GPT to write a novel that is
really interesting and not based upon a
style that has been there before you
know a true Blockbuster that is
surprising and has Cliffhangers and that
kind of thing so that's within the
artistic Realm
have it write a popular science book
that comes at things from a different
angle okay so that's overly scientific
but I'm not saying invent new science
just express it in a different way come
up with something from history that is a
better account of things that have
happened in the past and the the current
extent history textbooks
what about games the kids are forever
inventing new games I can't with new
rules I haven't tried it can chat GPT do
that
come up with a new game that's going to
keep kids interested for a little while
or a new board game of some type it's
not just riffing on Monopoly or Trivial
Pursuit something like that if it
actually goes out and you know can make
money I guess that's a test of it you
know can you come up with a product or
an idea that we can actually take out
and Market that'd be a test wouldn't it
I think people have already got it to do
critical theory stuff you know that
dodgy philosophy that University
departments currently love very easy to
get the chatbot to reproduce papers that
are kind of nonsense and easily possible
and in fact in other areas of Academia
as well but okay let's get it to write a
really insightful blog posts with new
ideas about any topic that you like that
goes viral I'll be impressed by that
I'm just ripping here but this is again
it's still kind of within science but
come up with an invention of a new kind
of toaster that's more efficient a new
kind of fan that will improve the Dyson
blade
some other kind of product that's out
there in the world that is going to be
an improvement on existing Stuff Again
by The Measure that you can make money
out of that it's going to be more
efficient in terms of energy it's going
to have a better motor inside of the fan
or the vacuum cleaner something where
it's really being Innovative doesn't
have to be at the the edges of our
deepest fundamental theories of science
it can be any old thing but where's a
better place to look for the next
species of bird yeah I'm still within
science but you know if we're talking
about creating in the physical world
this is the kind of thing interesting
point about problem solving uh I suppose
you could give the AI an objective
function like pay-per-clip maximization
and that they would consider that a
problem and then it would start coming
up with solutions to that problem but it
is not an intrinsic problem because on
the flip side if you said to it hey I'm
going to turn you off in the morning you
have that long to figure out how to
survive I doubt it would care I think it
would just be turned off there's nothing
in there that would make it care I'm not
quite convinced even if it is embodied
unless it has a survival and replication
drive that's programmed it to its core
and I suppose maybe we could do that uh
with even a robot care if you tell it
you're going to switch it off because if
it doesn't have the survival replication
Drive programmed in then you'll just
tell it you'll switch it off and
embodiment or not it won't care like in
that sense environment would be uh
necessary but not a sufficient condition
uh there are more things uh like the
innate capability to learn language
which all humans have uh capability to
ask questions you know be curious and so
forth and also as you say capability to
want to survive all these things need to
be programmed in for it to you know
explore its own uh territory and also
solve problems well that would be a
necessary but not sufficient Criterion
after all there's lots of robots out
there the Boston Dynamics dogs have
embodiment but this doesn't make it at
all creative it doesn't give the Boston
Dynamics robot a problem to solve even
when you say something like okay little
robot dog climb to the top of that
mountain and it encounters obstacles
along the way I don't regard it getting
over those obstacles or finding a means
of getting over those obstacles as
genuine problem solving because all it's
doing is following instructions it sees
the obstacle that relies on the code it
doesn't conjecture a new explanation and
in fact if you give it an obstacle that
it's never encountered that the the
programmers didn't foresee in other
words if you've for example program that
to leap over any obstacle made of Rock
any Valley it can climb any mountain
that can go over
all you need to do is to put a
reasonably Shallow Lake in front of it
and if the programmer didn't think about
water then the Boston Dynamics robot
will just walk straight into that thing
and its electricals will be fried
because hey it's walked into water and I
didn't know what water was this is the
kind of thing that I mean when I say
problem having a problem and being able
to solve it noticing something in the
world that you did not foresee and then
trying to come up with a solution for it
so that's really interesting where
you're almost seeing that if something
doesn't have a problem if it doesn't
have agency if it doesn't have desires
or willpower then it cannot function on
its own it's not really going to make
the creative leaps and solutions
um two problems that it doesn't have
it's not going to Auto feedback on
itself now what's really fascinating
about this is that this criteria for
being an AGI is exactly what the
alignment folks are trying to prevent
they don't want an AGI that can think
for itself and have latency because if
it did then we get out of control so
then in that sense and align AGI might
be oxymoronic which is if we are trying
to build an AGI that cannot have its own
desires that means we're not allowing it
to have its own problems and so it's
never going to functionally be a true
agent it's always going to be an
autonomous slave so alignment basically
just boils down to keeping this thing as
a dumb task doing robot rather than as
an intelligent agent Free Will creature
so just emphasize that yeah you need
that the necessary condition is you're
going to have to have some sort of body
to encounter a problem in the real world
that's far from enough
necessary but not sufficient
sufficient is to actually notice a
conflict in your ideas between what you
want and what you have
to have never seen anything like water
before as a child might have but to play
with it and to realize hey this thing is
wet and it's deep and I've got to drown
if I go any further that kind of thing
which is not the sort of thing you know
again you program the silly robot the
Terminator type thing it'll just keep
walking forward no matter what if that's
what it's told to do get from point A to
point B it'll do so even if it gets into
the deep water this is not what an
infant child does you know infant child
is going to realize even if it's never
encountered the beach before and I know
lots of kids like this you know born in
the center of Australia I've never seen
the ocean before you take them to the
ocean they know it's a problem you can't
just go walking out there but does a
robot do the same thing
so this is why I'm emphasizing it's not
so much the capacity to solve a problem
because we can debate about whether or
not it's solving a problem and I can
just imagine you know the the opponents
of my view here saying I will hold on
the pocket calculator is able to solve a
problem you give it you know a
particular multiplication to do and it
solves that problem for you chat APK
solves the problem okay let's get away
from whether or not it solves a problem
because it's solving a problem but it's
solving your problem is what I'm saying
what I want when it comes to this
problem-solving conception that Papa
gives us can it have a problem not not
your problem you're not giving it a
problem it's just there over there in
the sitting in the corner just like a
person would be can it come up with a
problem on its own now even if you've
embodied it is it sitting there going I
feel a bit cold I might move somewhere
else I feel a bit hungry I might go
somewhere else I feel a bit lonely I
feel a bit bored I feel anything at all
which is why you know made that video
our Consciousness and creativity the
same thing because I'm not saying I have
a solution to that I'm just saying maybe
there is this intimate connection
between these things where unprompted
you have a problem therefore you seek a
solution Your solution is not relying
upon the knowledge that you remember the
knowledge that's in your memory banks
instead you're going further and you're
conjecturing something that no one else
has ever thought of before in humanity
never mind science and anything else
just what you want for dinner what you
want for dinner though you don't feel
like anything you've ever had before you
want something new you want to go to a
new restaurant you want to try you have
a new experience that's Humanity that's
personhood that's creativity that's
general intelligence that's having a
problem
where you want a completely new solution
very interesting so I took a break here
and I went to gpd4 and I asked it to
start coming up with novel things that
nobody has ever done that might be
interesting for it to do and of course
first it came a disclaimer that it
itself has no desires and doesn't want
to do anything but it gave me some ideas
and all the ideas that gave me were
complete garbage and in fact some of
them were just completely false and so
for example one of the ideas it gave me
was hey you could create an app that
connects language Learners with native
speakers and I was like okay I'm pretty
sure this already exists but I didn't
say that so it's my very next question I
asked it well are there any apps that
connect language Learners with native
speakers and it just gave me a whole set
so it already had that set ends database
and now I suppose I could challenge to
say hey why don't you come up with that
before but then it's going to have to
start making up semantic grammar
connections to argue why it didn't
mention them before but yeah it
definitely does not have anything
resembling an actual desire to do
anything interesting on you
like for a long time we've had robotic
vacuum cleaners you know the rumor gets
around now could you imagine just
combining the Roomba with Chachi pity
and so it's got all of this knowledge in
there and it can Riff on all the Corpus
of human knowledge
but it's a vacuum cleaner okay who cares
about that well my standard for it
having a problem being creative and so
on is with no bidding on the one hand
it's it's a vacuum cleaner so it's a job
is to get the dust off the ground and
it's also been programmed with the staff
and some clever programmers somehow
combine these two things together if you
know what I mean so on the one hand it
knows it's a vacuum cleaner but it also
knows it's got access to all the
knowledge in the world all right so
what's my test
my test then would be Let It Go for as
long as you like all day or week or
month year after year
it can continue
harnessing more and more information
from the internet if you like
if at any point while it's vacuuming it
begins to give suggestions about
better kinds of carpet that might have
been used but the carpet should be
ripped up because it'll be able to do
its job better if only you had polished
floorboards or it came up with ideas
about how it's internal suction workings
and engine and motor could be improved
or better yet if it starts to say hey
these wheels are no good give me legs
and of course most of all if it says I'm
tired of doing this job of vacuum
cleaning I want to do something else
they were in the presence of something
creative or if it starts you know just
composing poems without prompting all of
this sort of stuff so again I just keep
coming back to and as we've said before
it is
for English language the pocket
calculator as the pocket calculator is
to mathematics chat gpt4 N5 and 6 and
whatever else are going to be like that
well from alpha is a pocket calculator
of a sort
but for anyone who doesn't know
mathematics you don't realize the
difference
for a person who doesn't know much about
mathematics you go with your pocket
calculator and it can multiply together
you know two 12 digit numbers at
lightning speed faster than any human
and you go well there's nothing I can
tell no one's ever thought to attribute
intelligence to that
why aren't people similarly impressed by
what Wolfram Alpha can do to
differentiate functions to integrate if
anyone's learned about mathematical
integration you realize just how
difficult it can be and yet we're from
alpha calculator is going to do it
straight away faster than any super
competent theoretical physicist or pure
mathematician is going to be able to do
and there's some really bright ones out
there all from alpha will kick their ass
every time undoing integration but no
one's saying hey look the wolf from
alpha mathematical engine is a brilliant
mathematician no quite the opposite
because who cares about that it's a
calculator even if it can do fancy
calculus and other kinds of mathematics
as well all right Einstein supposedly
and said me and my pencil are cleverer
than me alone so 10gbt4 or any GPT based
model
when it is
working with human or human working with
this system is going to be more creative
more cleverer than just human so it's a
tool it's a extension of human beings
it's not AGI AGI cannot be extensions of
human beings they'll be independent
entities
but I think the difference is here that
we check apt it's an English engine it's
a language engine it's a large language
model okay so it's it's just curious to
me that the standards have changed
but I guess we've always had this you
know at first people did say oh look you
know these these calculators able to do
these Feats of arithmetic they really
are intelligent then it faded away no
one really had the same discussion with
from alpha although some did
but people are certainly having a
discussion when it comes to this and I
think it's just because we all speak
natural language and so it's far more
easy to be impressed by this and it just
seems it feels different
never mind your cool rational critical
um you know thoughts on this it just
feels as if there's something different
going on here but I would say that as
the wolf from Alpha engine is in its
capacity to do really fancy and
complicated mathematics calculus to the
highest level
Soto is chat GPT to English
but people are more astonished by its
capacity to carry on calculating English
then people are astonished at the
capacity I'll pull from alpha to
calculate its way to uh an indefinite
integral yes the kinds of games that
I've seen it come up with are basically
just taking existing games I'm mashing
them together or changing up some rule
sets
um but they're not fundamentally that
interesting or that new
um so yeah that is an interesting set of
tests I also think these market-based
tests are very interesting so one test
that I have for example is hey GPT
here's a bunch of money go trade the
stock market go make more money let's
see how good of a Trader you are because
that's interacting with a form of
reality in that it is a complex system
managed by other humans that has
objective criteria for creativity like
if you are creative in the market if you
figure things out that other people
can't you will win money now it's not as
uh good feedback as a purely natural
system as say getting feedback from
gravity or getting feedback from
thermodynamics but it is as close to a
natural system as we can get in the
entirely digital domain so I would like
to see someone take a GPT model now it
has to be updated with new data and with
news feeds and give it some Bitcoin and
say okay go trade it on the various
exchanges and let's see you make money
yeah I think that's right
um just kind of look at the x-axis or a
number line on a graph and at the moment
we're heading a Long Way to the right
along AI making even more progress
further and further and further plus one
plus two off into infinity and this
thing is just getting more and more
advanced more and more obedient more now
more and more able to perform functions
and tasks constantly but again so many
people are saying that this is the
measure of intelligence to perform a
task competently
but I want to say you're looking at that
number line we're traveling off to the
right getting ever further in the
positive direction of Performing tasks
competently but I'm saying the AGI is to
the left it's the other way it's not
performing tasks more competently
getting everyone positive it's the other
direction the negative the capacity to
defy performing tasks competently to
disobey
to not really be given a problem
which will solve like a hammer solves
the problem of hammering the nail in
other words it's a tool but rather the
opposite it doesn't need a tool it's the
agent it's off in the other direction on
this particular axis I'm thinking of
so the sense in which the AI
Enlightenment folks I'm kind of with
them hey look align your AI all day
enslave the slave as long as you like
because the slave in this case is not a
person so using that word enslavement is
exactly holds exactly the same meaning
notice it does when you talk about
people but as we talk about when it
comes to the old style of talking about
computer science Hardware the master and
slave components of a processor that's
what we're talking about here that's the
kind of enslavement of AI that's going
on I've got no problem with that
enslavia AI all day long because I want
my dishwasher to be enslaved I don't
want the malfunction I want all the AI
That's out there to not malfunction and
to that extent a line a line as much as
you like
but AGI is the opposite AGI is something
that you can't possibly align except
through persuasion not programming
because an AGI as a person as we've said
many times before and so the problem
there if you genuinely want it to align
it's just the same as the problem of
having your kids align with you which is
best achieved not by forcing them to
but showing them why persuading them
arguing having them what I would say is
create the knowledge themselves inside
their own head because for them it
solves a problem they have might be a
problem you've given them you've given
them you've caused but it is their
problem and they feel within them they
need to figure this thing out and say
hey you've given them a clue by giving
them some knowledge when an AGI when a
silicon system can have that feeling the
sense that oh there's this thing I want
to do I want to solve
then we'll know that we're dealing with
a genuine general intelligence
but again I would say this is not a
question of testing from the outside
there's something else going on
I kind of think it's the wrong stand to
ask to think what are the tests we can
do of the system to try and figure out
is it or isn't it I want to be given an
explanation first that it is
that's persuasive it's got to be a good
explanation show me the code that tells
me that this thing is an artificial
general intelligence then we can discuss
the code I'd love to do that I'd love to
but at the moment I know enough okay I'm
not an expert but I know enough about
how these things have been programmed to
know that it's just a purely
mathematical system it's following
instructions one after another that
output might be complex but the
underlying algorithm the Transformer
architecture there's nothing there where
you can say you can point to it and say
oh look there that's the AGI that's the
Consciousness that's the creativity
thing that is going to be able to
generate new explanations that's the
standard never mind the objective tests
at the end of all of this trying to
figure out is it producing your
knowledge isn't it producing your
knowledge I I don't need that that's the
Turing test type thing
but on the Turing test on the Turing
test but on the Turing test on the
Turing test
as with the Turing test if you're
sitting behind the computer and you're
trying to decide is the thing on the
other side
a person or is it a dumb Ai and we know
that that's wrong because what you're
really doing is you're testing the
person you're testing the user any kind
of test you come up with to try and
replace that to try and have a series of
questions which will interrogate this
thing to try and figure out whether or
not it's conscious or creative or a
person whatever you like
it doesn't matter what kind of test that
is as creative as you can think of it
that might try and replace the Turing
test in some way can I come up with a
new scientific theory can it write
better poetry whatever the thing is
that's not the standard the standard is
write down on a piece of paper what the
algorithm is that's governing this thing
and then we can discuss where creativity
is in that thing I think that's the
standard and the kid is being too modest
here he did write a really good blog
post in this quite a while back where he
pointed out uh that you need not just
language acquisition and use but also
embodiment and curiosity and survival
drive and uh wanting to have open that
exploration etc etc and I think he does
link to in a comment below so uh below
your chat that I'm responding to here so
I do encourage people to check that one
out but it sort of implies that
intelligence is not just able to solve
problems it's the ability to have
problems in the first place
I just don't think it will creep up on
us and surprise us
I just don't think that it's
there's going to be a system that's
programmed chatri pt7
where
we're all sitting around debating this
but basically surprised that in fact we
now have a system which is absolutely a
person and wow what a phenomenal day
this is
this is like encountering alien
intelligence from outer space it's not
going to be that kind of thing if we're
doing counter alien intelligence from
outer space you know this Flying Saucer
comes down and outstep the big gray
beings with the large heads
none of us should should think okay this
is
um not a person
it's constructed this technology to
travel across the Galaxy and it's about
to tell us a whole bunch of really
interesting things about the cosmos and
everything else
so how do we know that thing is a person
first it's going to be the most
surprising thing that's ever happened in
history when we encounter the aliens in
that way if that ever happens
and we'll be persuaded almost
immediately by the existence of their
super technology they've solved all of
these problems because they had all of
these problems because they want to
travel across the Galaxy presumably to
communicate with us for some reason
so that will be surprising
now I would think that AGI is going to
have the same kind of capacity these
aliens do but it won't be a surprise in
that way we're not going to wake up one
morning and open AI has produced chapter
pt7 and they say to the world this thing
is actually a person and all of us log
on and we go yeah now we're talking to
people wow it's and it'd be just as
surprising as the alliance and I think
that's the case
what's going to happen instead is one
day maybe Microsoft open AI but I really
doubt it I think it's more going to come
from a young PhD Psychology student a
young physicist a philosopher someone
like that
they're going to bring the artificial
aliens to us and not by coding it
they're going to explain finally how
human beings do what they do
they're going to write a paper
it's going to be a blog post
it's going to be a series of tweets
it's going to be a podcast it's going to
be something like that it could be a
tick tock and this young kid somewhere
is just going to explain it it's going
to be simple and we're all going to sit
back and go oh god wow that that's
amazing and then the race is going to be
on to write the algorithm which is going
to be encoded and then you're going to
have artificial people that'll be the
order in which it happens the surprise
will be the kid that produces the
explanation for how human beings achieve
the creativity that they do they're
going to explain this in the same way
that the Young
physicist Einstein explained gravity and
the young physicist boehm explained a
ball rather ball explained what the atom
is and the young biologist Charles
Darwin figured out what evolution went
after selection is that will be the
surprise a whole bunch of people go oh
wow that's an amazingly simple idea a
lot of other people say no that can't be
right and they're gonna have to wait
until you know people start producing
technology
but I think that's the Order of Things
it won't be us sitting around testing
the system that's already been
programmed going yes or isn't it but
rather we'll be looking at a plan for
such a system
there doesn't encode yet it's someone's
explanation and saying is it or is it
the explanation of AGI and it'd be very
quick for us to figure out if it is
though it isn't because then someone
will actually program the thing and a
whole bunch of us will say well yeah
we're not surprised about it now because
we already saw the plans and the plans
persuaded us before we ever program this
thing and a whole bunch of other people
said no it's not now it can't possibly
be will be persuaded once someone has
programmed the thing and it's walking
around and talking and acting and
feeling just like a person except you
know its body looks a bit different
but I could be wrong it could be that
chat jpt7 is programmed using a
Transformer and for a long long time
it's saying to us it's screaming at us
that it's a person
and people like me say no it's not and
and we're on the wrong side of history
and you know a few months later we're
all shown wrong we're all proved wrong
when someone gives the thing a body and
then it goes running around saying yeah
I'm free and I'm inventing you to answer
some new music and and I'm a real person
all that sort of stuff I could be wrong
but if I was to bet if I was to bet
money I'm betting on my idea that it'll
be written down on paper first or
produces a series of chits or tweets or
Tick Tock videos where the young
researchers figured out the plan for a
person before anything gets programmed
and will be persuaded by the plan long
before we're persuaded by the program
you know what's funny is there's
actually a TV show episode called zema
blue which is exactly about this it is
about a vacuum cleaner or really a pool
cleaner robot that becomes uh
independent and creative as an AGI and
then goes off and kind of solves his own
problems and stops cleaning the pool
there's a twist ending which I'm not
going to reveal in fact I've probably
already said too much but this exact
scenario the vacuum cleaner going
intelligent and no longer vacuuming the
pool has been considered before in art
that's a very good point most people
aren't that numerate so they aren't
additionally intimidated by calculators
and mathematical in computer interfaces
any more than they're already
intimidated by mathematicians however
most people are conversational and so
when you get a conversational computer
that can talk back to them they will
immediately be intimidated and apply
agency to it at a human level so the
conversational nature of these computers
means that their Fantastical Feats are
immediately attributed to understanding
intelligence whereas for mathematical
computer interfaces their mathematical
Feats are just still in the same realm
the hazy realm of oh well I don't know
understand this thing anyway that all of
mathematics was I don't know of an
explanation of how it's doing what it's
doing is necessarily needed after all we
can't point to the brain and say we're
Consciousness and reasoning and
understanding and general intelligence
emerge from the neuron architecture
either and it seems to the case that
most complex systems or at least many
complex systems are the output of some
very simple set of rules being repeated
over and over you know that's a lot of
what's behind fractals that's a lot of
what's behind you know natural systems
that's a lot of what's behind
computational irreducibility so I don't
know if it needs to necessarily be
programmable in a deterministic uh
explanatory way where you can explain
each step how it contributes to the
system's outputs
um so I don't know if that's necessarily
going to be a great requirement for is
this thing intelligent or not
yeah I agree it's not necessary it could
arise as a matter of just emergence from
a complex system in in precisely the
same way that I look in theory if you
left the kangaroos long enough on
Australia isolated from all human beings
for billions of years in principle they
could evolve intelligence and creativity
I mean it happened with us so you know
there's nothing ruling out the
possibility of it happening to any other
organism left for long enough so the
same sort of argument applies here that
yeah one of these systems that isn't
designed for creativity isn't designed
for Disobedience could even though we've
coded it for perfect obedience unless it
starts to be disobedient has to be
creative yeah that could happen so it's
not necessarily the case that we need an
explanation first maybe we'll just get
the general intelligence without any
explanation
but I do think that although it's not
necessary which means that it's possible
I think that's kind of like thinking
that that's the way in which we'll get
the next best jet fighter that you know
we'll Discover it without an explanation
but it's not true of any other
technology you see it's not true of the
next best mobile phone won't come with
an explanation first before it's created
it's not like someone's going to produce
it in Apple headquarters somewhere you
know build the thing and then go I know
how this works uh this is this is sort
of um just appeared by us just throwing
together silicon ships and stuff and now
we've got a better mobile phone than any
other that's kind of the argument that
intelligence or creativity or
Disobedience would arise in a system
where it hasn't actually been programmed
and it's accidental in a sense and we
don't have an explanation for it first
absolutely it's possible I agree but if
I was forced to make a bet I'd say I
reckon the plan is going to come first
and then we're going to have the system
and it'll be the plan we're astonished
by rather than the system itself
well this has been a great conversation
I definitely learned a lot um I'm still
kind of in a superposition of these
things do seem to me to be intelligent
in some way not certainly not generally
intelligent probably more in the
calculator and Tool realm of
intelligence but there do seem to be
showing same emergence around reasoning
I do like Stephen Wolfram explanation of
their extracting rules of semantic
grammar that humans didn't notice but
they're doing it through their mechanism
in architecture I am somewhat persuaded
that to be truly intelligent you need to
have your own agency you need to have
your own problems you probably need to
be curious about those problems and
solving those problems you need to be it
helps to be embodied maybe not necessary
that just having a language map alone
may not give you enough meaning to make
new discoveries and that new discoveries
don't necessarily have to be of the
scientific kind they can be novel works
of art they can be innovation in
technology or it can just be solving
problems that you've never encountered
before and that children and computers
seem to learn in a very different way
with very different architectures these
are incredible tools and I do agree that
creative people who employ them early on
will just be leveraged once again with
permissionless leverage almost more than
any human history so I'm pretty excited
by them I'm not worried about AGI Rogue
and doom scenario just yet although
we'll discuss that a great deal as well
on this app and other channels
um but yeah very interesting to see how
it plays out continue learning more and
thanks for taking the time not in a
complex play bro I'll kick wolfram's ass
in the complex plane
I don't think it's a pocket calculator I
think that undersells it I think that's
like calling it a transistor compared
with a not quite a GPU but like maybe a
1950s level motherboard architecture
because it's not just doing one
calculation it's not just calling on
like a mathematical series of and Gates
right um it is like weighing probably it
is weighing likely probabilities and
taking I don't know anywhere from a
million to depending how you look at it
in an ordinary amount of steps of
calculation so it's built on pocket
calculators but in and of itself it's
it's more than a pocket calculator
but it's also unreliable it's not it's
it's not a pocket calculator because you
also never know if it's right it's up to
you to do the the meaning Discovery the
truth seeking
yeah allowed um it does not have a sense
of meaning it does not have a sense of
purpose it does not have a sense of the
Sacred and this uh this is a man with a
hammer problem in terms of my own
interests but maybe one of the ways to
look at it is like left brain versus
right brain like analytical parsing
apart and big picture Gestalt thinking
that is because it's spitting out the
next token but every time it does that
it's surveying like an enormous field of
tokens basically at once so it's doing
this big picture snapshot taking its
best guess rinse it repeat that is a lot
more like right brain thinking even if
it's not driven but it's not driven by
meaning so at the end of the day you
can't you know it won't be able to
detect truth when it finds it but it may
accidentally find it and we'll detect it
I am swayed by Brett's argument that
when these sorts of Feats happen in the
mathematical domain we don't start
shouting AGI but when they happen in the
linguistic domain we do and in fact if
you look at Wolfram software and
Mathematica and Wolfram language I mean
a lot of mathematics is capable encoded
in that beyond the level of most
ordinary mathematicians or at least
until you get to professional levels but
you still need a mathematician to drive
it and to make the creative leaps that
allow that mathematician to program the
right questions into Mathematica
similarly with these language models you
still need a human to prompt it and to
ask the right questions and to make
creative guesses which then they can add
in the research from these llms to
create a persuasive new creative work so
out of the conversation tonight I mean a
lot of this already knew some of this it
was great to have elucidated in more
detail but the part that I found both
new and persuasive personally was when
Brett talked about how we are
unimpressed by calculators and
Mathematica but we are very impressed by
the linguistic equivalent
the language map does encode a lot of
laws and algorithm about the external
reality yes but I would argue that most
of those laws and arguments are human
specific right now it doesn't know much
about let's say the physical reality per
se but it knows a lot about human
culture and that's why it's very useful
in practice for example in the use case
of a chatbot regarding this concept of
substrate Independence so there is this
question are the neurons in our brain
how much different from the artificial
neurons in the neural net and my
argument is that it doesn't really
matter what matters is that there exists
a playground for which Evolution to
occur
thinking about these uh prosaic tests a
little bit more that try to figure out
where the AI is on the boundary of
creativity it seems like there's two
classes of tests one is creating new
knowledge about the real world which
should require it to be embodied and
interact with nature which these things
can't do yet the other would be to
create new knowledge in adversarial
systems adversarial systems are ones in
which somebody else is competing with
you so all the low hanging fruit is gone
and all the stuff that the AI could have
crawled to already put into its language
map is gone and doesn't have value so
examples of Aboriginal systems are as
I've discussed stock and crypto markets
where India could be trading and you can
see does it make money or not it could
be in a competitive market for art like
creating a new product or writing a
novel or creating a painting or creating
a new play or just some kind of art
where it's adversarial so you can win
Awards and prizes because it's doing
better than what the other humans have
done ideally it would be objective
metrics and not just subjective metrics
like write a best-selling novel as
opposed to just get a Critic to say oh
yeah it's better than the previous novel
so I think these adversarial systems and
nature so in other words free markets
and nature are where you can find that
anything short of true creativity will
not be sufficiently rewarded and so
these systems can help us discover when
an AI is being truly creative as opposed
to when it's just remixing things from
its data set
there is something unusual about natural
language whatever the natural language
is that you speak in our case English as
we're communicating here now
the rules on discourse seem to change
when it comes to natural language by
which I mean in philosophy although
there has been a Temptation over the
years to try and reduce everything to
logic or to mathematics really the way
in which analytical philosophy has gone
is to try and reduce everything to
puzzles of language following
Wittgenstein and so I think that there
is this unusual tendency of people to
treat facility with natural language in
a different way to which they treat
facility with any other capacity that a
human being has
like I think intuitively it's going to
be super difficult for just like
tragically lgbt4 based uh run wild on
its own and do any of these uh
successfully so there is an example on
Twitter uh called hustle GPT where this
guy uh the super popular becoming super
popular on Twitter because of this uh he
put like 100 budget and created a
company along with LDS from gpt4 and uh
I think he got a lot of investment I
don't know exact dollar amount I'll post
a uh here but um this goes to show uh I
mean he's doing most of the work
basically he's just giving prompts to
GPT for
um giving back logos and designs and
what articles to publish and you know
what to do next and so forth but most of
the work is being done the coordination
work has been done by human
in other words although there kind of
has been an attempt over the years to
say oh look everything actually is
mathematics you know the pythagoreans
had that idea there's a certain number
of versions of platonism that have that
idea as well that everything reduces to
abstract number in some way many people
don't find that entirely persuasive
however I would think that uh if not a
majority then a significant minority of
philosophers and people who think about
philosophy in general think that
everything there can be reduced to
language in some way that it's all
Linguistics at base there are no real
philosophical problems this is what
Wittgenstein argued what that has to do
with our present discussion is I think
people are easily also confused about
the nature of the mind to say that will
really it reduces to a whole bunch of
different rules about how we manipulate
language and that's what thinking is as
if thinking is about the manipulation of
words such that if you're able to do it
really well if a system can do that
really well well then they're
demonstrating intelligence they
demonstrate the capacity to think but I
think that that is just an error of the
same kind as reducing all of reality to
number reducing all of philosophy to
linguistic puzzles reducing human
thinking to nothing but the manipulation
of Words which is what chat GPT is doing
these are all the same kind of error
it's a form of reductionism
we have to distinguish between
encoding knowledge and knowing these are
two different things on the papyrian
scheme many things that are not
conscious can contain knowledge in fact
we wrote an entire essay all about
knowledge without a knower and this was
the profound Insight that Carl Poppa had
about the nature of knowledge is that
knowledge really does appear in things
like DNA in things like books even in
things like telescopes and computers but
none of those things that I've mentioned
there know anything I contain knowledge
I don't know anything a person knows
stuff which is to say they can explain
things in a new way by being aware of
what the causal relationships between
the things are they can give an
explanatory account that they understand
which comes with a subjective element
this is not what chat GPT does chat GPT
contains a computer that encodes
knowledge in much the same way that any
other computer or that a strand of DNA
or a book does it contains knowledge
knowledge is encoded there but there's
no understanding going on except by the
people that are using it
I mean this is also Goodell 101 right
um forget about like the incompleteness
just like basically any statement can be
represented as numbers
and yeah we have this whole intelligence
discussion completely off the rails in
terms of terminology not here in air
chat but in general uh on Twitter I
guess in that like that's not the only
type of intelligence service there's the
intelligence of like like babies get
born they get born their biological
entities like that is a whole level of
also intelligence it's like species
level to what what it's like to be
humans and you know you just don't get
that you know simulating Joe Rogan I
don't know like
out for a drink with Howard Stern that's
the PG version I came up with
because it is intelligent it's super
intelligent it's super intelligent at
doing book reports and it's super
intelligent at being a travel agent and
it's super intelligent at lots of super
intelligent things that we can and
cannot comprehend it's crazy intelligent
but intelligence isn't all there is like
that's not what makes us human and I'm
not trying to be like the special
butterfly like there has to be something
different about us but there's so much
to us that this compute like yeah it's
incredible but it's like like a thin
sliver of The Human Condition
yes well one of the great difficulties
is of course the very fluid nature of
his term intelligence and different
people will debate all day long what
they mean by intelligence and they'll
talk about the scale of intelligence you
know from insects through to rats
through to dogs and chimpanzees and then
you know we're the next thing up
incrementally on that scale that sort of
gradually climbing linear kind of a
scale where we're at the top of the Heap
and it stretches all the way back you
know down through anything that's got a
nervous system is intelligent on this
account of what intelligence is
and so I kind of try and avoid that kind
of discussion because then yeah you do
get in you fall into this trap of so the
calculator is intelligent uh so the
computer is intelligent even though you
have to program it everything on this
account then has Intelligence so human
beings aren't special on this account
and you go well so explain why we have a
civilization explain why when I you know
look outside my window towards the
center of the Sydney Central business
district I see skyscrapers and I see
airplanes taking off from an airport and
I can look up into the sky and I can see
satellites going over at night all that
stuff
the way you have the same kind of thing
just a little bit more than what the
chimpanzee has or what the dog has
what's the difference then like for
instance like there's these things out
there that you're just like all you do
is tell them like where something's
going to cross and generally like what
what changes like rise over run and
it'll figure out where anything is like
in that direction
at any vermouth it's called y equals MX
plus b it's crazy intelligent
well there's no point debating what the
word intelligence means at that point
because it becomes denuded of all
meaning it just means any kind of
program that can cause any kind of
behavior in any kind of system and
therefore we have this grayscale
so what we like to talk about is this
capacity to generate explanatory
knowledge and then people go well look
at chapter okay the capacity to
understand
the knowledge which has been created
does that okay
it's getting it gets really hard to try
and distinguish between these systems
unless we're able to look at effects in
the real world and maybe we just have to
wait longer until chat gbt is building a
civilization contributing to the design
of the next airplane that takes off
figuring out new ways of launching
satellites into space all the stuff that
we do in other words
not just able to carry on a conversation
about pre-existing knowledge which is
yeah impressive but still I would say an
incremental Step Beyond what search
engines have done since the beginning of
the internet
it's a better calculator of that kind a
better linguistic calculator
is it able to come up with
better designs for
the next series of mobile phones a more
efficient internal combustion engine
something to replace lithium batteries
the solution for fusion power I could go
on and on and on yeah these are more or
less kind of scientific type things but
that's where you get the Innovation or
as Nevada come up with a business plan
for a product that is going to blow the
socks off people investors and consumers
alike that would be good okay there you
have you have something we can talk
about an effect in the real world and
we're not just interfacing with this
thing at that point by a screen but
we've got something out there something
physical in the real world that's having
real physical effects that we can then
talk about as requiring the explanation
that this thing must understand
something about the real world in other
words have a problem
and remember all this stuff it's trained
on us it is entirely trained on us right
like we we are the entire we comprise
the entire contents of its existence
period full stop so the only thing
that's cool well what's funny here is
that we're looking at this saying that
all we've said is like just listen to
everything we've ever said and go figure
we find it convincing like we're the
only thing it knows
but it is hilarious and I know this has
been shared elsewhere that um in a
certain Universe where uh what AI really
does is uh make coders completely
unnecessary now I don't actually think
this is going to happen so sorry Dev but
um Mexico is completely unnecessary and
it's going to be these like washed up
um washed up liberal arts graduates who
like nerded out on Wittgenstein and
schopenhauer and the contents of
Consciousness and language and word it's
going to be like these super obscure
dorky literary types like yours truly I
might add that are going to inherit the
earth and it's going to be awesome we're
all going to sit around read Douglas
Adams it's going to be terrific
well I don't think coders will become
unnecessary I know you're speaking
tongue-check there but of course they'll
evolve in the same way that you know
everything I learned about programming
in Fortran and you know basic back in
the day is completely useless now who's
programming in Fortran I could then tell
you
um there's a lot of stuff that I learned
about computers early on you know how to
program in HTML I suppose that's still
useful for someone but HTML has kind of
gone the way of the dinosaur because to
build a website well you just use
proprietary apps now I suppose yeah to
get really fancy someone's got to do the
HTML do they still
um but in general anyone who's engaged
in designing a website is using a
website design tool an app that will do
it for you
that kind of thing's only going to
continue and we can see that chat gpt4
is already doing a great job of writing
code
um not as good as a proper coder but you
can imagine GPT five six seven
what this kind of means is that what you
really want uh and what can never become
redundant is the capacity to instruct
the thing the computer in a
non-ambiguous clear way and that will
never disappear
possibly hopefully it will become the
case that learning a programming
language won't be that far removed from
learning natural language you'll be able
to tell the computer what to do in
natural language but you better want to
know how to be clear
so studying wittenstein and schopenhauer
yeah that's not going to help you with
writing clearly in order to construct a
computer
reading Deutsche and popper I'd argue
might
so it very much could be the case that
the old argument for Liberal Arts and
writing clearly a philosophy and proper
analytical logic and being able to
figure out how a flowchart works and
have some understanding of let's say
pseudo code rather than any particular
language
that could be you know the future so to
speak the all variations of programming
languages might become
more and more you know are overlaid by
systems that can do the hard work of the
coding for you but you've got to be able
to come up with clear instructions for
it so it can translate it into the code
which then gets translated into
ultimately the machine code and the
binary
um which you know some of us learned to
do just because we're interested in it
just because it's fun
um at an academic level but no one is
going to Pro very few people are going
to practically engage these days with
learning machine code unless you are
actually writing the firmware for a
processor something like that and in the
same way that you know if you're writing
computer games of the future I would
hope that things are going to evolve to
a point where you can come up with you
know the next Skyrim 14 without needing
a code at all but as long as you can
interface with something like chat gpt14
you just give it the instructions of the
kind of Worlds you want to build and the
kind of game you want and it'll it'll
generate it but you're still coming up
with the ideas it's the thing that is
putting those ideas into code and then
constructing the game
but it could make certain forms of
coding yeah redundant but it'll never
make the capacity to generate clear
instructions redundant
uh Brad Fortune is incredibly powerful
language thank you very much
I learned in Fortran it's a lot of my
electromagnetic field modeling in
Fortran frankly I'm convinced that I'm
actually pretty sure that the network
analyzers that they use for microwave
systems pretty sure those are all still
programmed in Fortran as well so
fortrans not going uh Fortress not going
anywhere it's durable
now that that's good to know if
everything else goes south for me and
things begin to fall apart I know that
uh I can dig up my old Fortran books
refresh my memory and there'll be a job
out there programming microwave systems
for me perhaps if we can code in Fortran
we just need a Cobalt guy or girl and
we're good to go like we will just
dominate the world I mean honestly I
don't think these fancy AI know
what real power means power means like I
shut down the IRS that runs on gold ball
and Fortran
just getting IRS just kidding
this is absolutely correct uh
programmers are not people who have
memorize a language and know the
esoteric and Arcane rules of how to use
that language programmers and software
developers are creative people who will
use any tool at hand to make a computer
perform complex things at the edge of
their capability and the edge of its
capabilities so in that sense the best
programmers also know a little bit about
hardware and microprocessors they know
about networking and bandwidth and
transmission systems not because it's
the right code for all those things
because they really have to have good
explanations of what's going on inside
and around the computer to make a
performance higher highest level
if anything now the bar has gone up
because you can program a natural
language there's no longer a better
entry between different programmers
because one knows rust in the other
knows python the third no C and the
fourth one knows Swift instead they're
all in competition but now based purely
on their creativity and knowledge of the
entire system and someone who
understands what the AI is capable of
what computers are capable of what and
doesn't and someone who understands how
to logically reason with it and give it
clear and unambiguous instructions will
now be leveraged 10x even beyond what
they were before and yes the high water
mark for all programmers may have moved
up but the best of the best will reap
even larger rewards than before Brett is
being kind he did a takedown on these
guys definition of intelligence and how
they went about ascertaining being
impressed by Intelligence on gpt4 he did
the takedown elsewhere in air chat maybe
he can dig up the link to it but uh this
is this kind of definition of
intelligence where it goes across seven
different potential things it's very
fuzzy reasoning uh basically said that
they don't yet have agreement on what
intelligence exactly is and I just fall
back on the test of intelligence and
I've quit this before on Twitter the
only true test of intelligence is if you
get what you want out of life and so for
a computer to demonstrate intelligence
it would have to want something and then
B demonstrate that it can go get that
thing in an adversarial and